1 Timothy chapter number 2 and I'll be looking just at verse number 1 this morning and next
week we have a missionary that'll be with us and then we'll continue through this portion
of Scripture.
But I want to focus our attention simply this morning on verse number 1, 1 Timothy 2 and
verse number 1.
The memory verse for the month of February is 1 Timothy 2 and verse number 8.
It's only the fourth of the month but someone came to me this morning and said, I got it
memorized, can I quote it to you and that was an encouragement to me and so thank the
Lord for that.
1 Timothy 2, 8 will be the memory verse for the month of February.
But this morning we'll look at 1 Timothy 2 and verse number 1.
Notice what the Bible says, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers,
intercessions and giving of thanks be made for all men.
I understand there's not a period there but I want to focus our attention this morning
on verse number 1.
The subject of prayer is addressed regularly in the Bible.
In fact, these are some estimates with regard to the number of references of the subject
of prayer in our Bibles.
It's estimated that there are 650 prayers that are recorded throughout God's Word.
It is estimated that there are 450 answers to prayer that are recorded in God's Word.
As you study through the Gospels, it is estimated that there are 25 different times in which
you read of Jesus praying in the Gospels.
And so we find that prayer is a subject matter that is often addressed throughout the Bible.
As believers, we have been invited to bring our petitions to the Lord.
By the way, we ought not take that invitation lightly that God has invited us to enter directly
into His presence.
The opportunity that we have, as it says in Hebrews 4, that we can come boldly under the
throne of grace, when He says to Jeremiah, call unto me.
What a great invitation.
Have you ever had someone say this to you, hey, if you need any help, let me know.
You ever heard somebody say that?
And maybe when they said it because you knew them, you thought, they really don't want
me to call them, they're just being kind.
You ever thought that?
And no doubt we've probably had that kind of an experience where maybe we thought, well,
that was just a kind gesture, they felt like they had to say it, but they really don't
want me to call them for help.
When Jesus, when God said, call unto me, you're not going to cause Him to be overwhelmed
or overtired.
He wants us to bring our petitions to Him.
He's invited us.
And we better never take it lightly that God has extended to His children an invitation
to prayer.
Not only have we been invited to pray, but we've been instructed throughout the Scriptures,
we've been instructed to be people of prayer.
We understand that as we study through the Bible that we have been given numerous promises
regarding the subject of prayer, and what a blessing to understand this morning that
our God is able to answer, that He is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that
we ask or think, and that helps us to be aware of the impact of prayer.
We see that there's been an invitation that's been extended, we find that we've been instructed
to be people of prayer, but then God reveals to us in His Word the impact of prayer.
It's amazing, there are times in the Scriptures that you'll read lengthy prayers, you'll read
of really, maybe we could call it an eloquent kind of a prayer, but at other times you simply
read a prayer that's just, Lord, help.
Just help, Lord.
You find that at times you read very quickly a prayer that is uttered by a servant of the
Lord and you have the opportunity to see how God works and what God does, and we see the
impact of prayer as you study the Bible.
This morning, I'm so thankful that we have a God who hears and answers prayer.
I hope that this morning you have experienced in your life as I've experienced in my life
where God answers prayer.
By the way, it's so encouraging.
It builds our faith when God answers prayer, and when we pray specifically, we have the
opportunity to see specifically what God is able to do.
When you pray just general prayers, you do not have that same benefit of increasing your
faith and impacting you in the area of your prayer life because you pray generally and
maybe you can't see specifically how God has answered.
This morning, our God hears and answers.
He hears the specific cries of His people.
He's never bothered when you enter into His presence.
He never says, okay, your time is up.
No, the God of the universe, the God that is omnipotent, that is omniscient, that is
immutable, the one who is King of kings and Lord of lords, He says, call unto me and I
will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not.
God said this.
I believe it was John R. Rice.
He said this, all of our problems are prayer problems.
That's a good statement.
All of our problems are prayer problems.
It is sad to consider this morning how often prayer is neglected in the lives of His people.
I think if we'd be honest this morning, there are times in which we've neglected to pray.
We've not taken the admonition that we find in the book of James where the Bible says
any sick, let them pray.
We're not taking the admonition from this, the exhortation from this verse of Scripture
that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions and giving of thanks, that prayer
is not that priority, if you will, that we do not see in our lives this consistency in
our prayer lives.
Let me say this this morning.
We should not need a tragedy in our lives to drive us to our knees.
Unfortunately, if we're not careful, we can neglect prayer until that tragedy occurs and
then all of a sudden we fall on our knees and we get in the presence of God.
But it should not require for you and for me to have a tragedy in order to cause us
to pray.
No, we should be people of prayer.
Our lives should be marked by prayer.
I believe this morning that prayer is essential in the life of a believer.
The little blurb that Holly put in the bulletin, to be a Christian without prayer is no more
possible than to be alive without breathing.
I like that quote.
Why?
Because prayer is essential.
If we're believers, we ought to be in communion with our Father.
If we've been told in the Scriptures that He is our Father and we are His children,
we ought to be in communion with our Father.
We find this morning that if we would agree that prayer is essential, that I would say
this, that structure in our prayer lives is the key to consistency.
A key to consistency is that there's structure in our prayer lives.
That's why I've titled the message this morning from this single verse of Scripture,
structure in your prayer life.
Structure in your prayer life.
As we begin to think about the subject of prayer, we understand this morning that we
are to pray believing.
We're to pray in faith.
We're to pray believing that God hears us, believing that God is able, believing that
He is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.
We are to pray in faith.
We serve the omniscient God.
We find, I read just this past week about the great prayer of Hezekiah and all that
was against him with the armies that had gathered and Rabshakeh saying all of the things
that he was saying with regard to all of the victories that had been experienced by their
army.
But Hezekiah believed that the God who spoke the world into existence was able.
He believed that God could do something about his circumstances and he prayed in faith.
He prayed believing.
We find that we're also to pray with confidence.
Listen, I pray in confidence that my God hears me, that He promised to do so.
Have you ever spoken to someone and you said, are you listening to me?
They're distracted, maybe they're on that wonderful device that we call a smartphone
and you think, man, they're distracted, they're not hearing me and we want to make sure that
we have a measure of confidence that the person that we're speaking to is hearing us.
And I tell you this morning that we can pray in confidence.
We can pray confidently knowing that our God hears us.
I think about the passage of Scripture with the situation with Elijah and all of the worshippers
of Baal and as they're crying out and cutting themselves and all that they're doing to try
to get the attention of their false god to send fire.
He didn't hear, why?
Because he can't.
He's a false god.
In fact, the idols are described throughout the Scriptures, the Psalms, a couple of different
Psalms deal with it, where they have ears but they hear not.
They have, and we deal with all of those subjects and we find this morning that our God hears
us.
We're to pray, I believe this morning, not only in faith, believing that God can, not
only with confidence that He hears us, but we ought to pray with expectancy.
We ought to pray expecting that God's going to answer.
We ought to pray expecting, listen, it should not be a surprise in your life and in my life
when God answers prayer.
We should pray expectantly with this measure of expectancy.
understand this morning that we are not to pray with vain repetitions.
We are not to pray with vain repetitions.
We find that we are not to pray for recognition.
Those that were praying as Jesus was ministering, the religious leaders of the day that would
pray with the idea of having recognition from those that would hear their voices as they
would stand and pray with some eloquent speech and what have you.
God said they have their reward.
What was their reward?
Really it was the applause of man, the recognition of man.
But he told us when we pray that we are to go in our closet.
Pray in secret.
Why?
Because our Father hears us.
We are not to pray for recognition.
It's not that someone would say, oh man that was such a wonderful prayer.
It's not the idea.
Praying to our God.
Prayer should be as easy as it is for you to talk to anybody else.
It's communing with our Father.
We need to have some structure in our prayer lives.
As we look at this single verse of Scripture this morning, I notice just a couple of thoughts.
Number one, notice there's a priority on prayer, a priority on prayer.
The Bible says, I exhort therefore.
Now consider the context of the book of 1 Timothy.
We've studied through the first 20 verses of chapter number 1 and we come now to chapter
number 2.
So the chapter divisions are there for our ease of reading and getting to the passage.
But Paul says to Timothy, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, I exhort therefore
that first of all, and he's going to deal with the subject of prayer.
He places a priority, an emphasis on the subject of prayer.
And we find this morning that when we understand the context of the book and what's going on
and the battle that they're facing, that Timothy is facing as he's there in Ephesus with all
of the false teaching that's prevalent.
And those that have gone and dealt with these false teachers explaining their false teaching
and their desiring to be teachers of the law, but they don't understand the law, they don't
understand what they say, they're not qualified, they've, they've swerved, they've turned to
ving jangling.
We mentioned last week how that these two names specifically that they have put away
concerning the faith, literally to thrust away.
And these false teachings are beginning to invade the church at Ephesus, and Paul as
he continues to exhort and to encourage his son in the faith to continue to war a good
warfare as we dealt with last Sunday morning, he places an emphasis on the subject of prayer.
Can I tell you this morning that you cannot war a good warfare, that you are not going
to continue if you neglect prayer.
Prayer is vital, prayer is essential, and if we're going to continue, if we're going
to war a good warfare, if we're gonna deal in these last days with all of the things
that we're gonna deal with as we look in chapter number three of 2 Timothy, it'll be months
from now before we get to that passage and dissect it specifically.
But if we're gonna deal with those things in our world today, we must be people of prayer.
It is absolutely vital.
We see in the early church, in the book of Acts, what's amazing about the church of,
there as you see as you go through the book of Acts and see what happens in the first
century, they're people of prayer.
Peter was arrested and he's thrown in prison, and guess what the church did?
They had an all-night prayer meeting.
You know it used to be common even in our America, the church would have all-night prayer
meetings.
Now we have once a week on a Wednesday a prayer meeting and a third of the church shows up.
I'm just being honest.
We've not put an emphasis on prayer.
We've neglected prayer.
And this morning as we begin to think about the priority that is placed on prayer, we
see that he says, first of all, listen, if you're gonna engage in this world, if you're
going to interact and you're going to be engaged in this world, you better be prayed up.
Several years ago, they've not had the opportunity to sing it recently, but Juliana, Brianna,
and Holly sang a song about a wall of prayer.
And thinking about how we engage in prayer, listen, there needs to be a priority placed
on prayer.
And we find that this morning, what place, I would ask myself and I'd ask you to ask
yourself this morning, what place does prayer have in your life?
What place does prayer have in my life?
I wonder this morning, does my schedule or does your schedule reveal that we've placed
a priority on prayer?
Now understand when I phrase the question that way, I'm not simply meaning that we should
have some schedule where we schedule, no, we ought to be praying all the time.
But listen, if you don't plan to pray, you're not going to pray.
How many of you have experienced that in your life?
I'm telling you, your day is going to get away from you in a moment if you don't plan
to pray.
Things are going to come up, this is going to happen, those mothers that have young children,
man, those kids are going to be, listen, sometimes we've got to wake up earlier in the morning
so that we can spend some time in prayer.
Someone's like, pastor, you must be an early person, you love the mornings, no, actually
I'd rather stay up late at night.
I'm just being honest, naturally, I'm a night owl.
But guess what happens when you stay up too late?
You can't get up in the morning.
Something so simple that I said so many years ago, if you want to wake up early, you got
to go to bed early.
It's a simple thing, but you know what?
If you get up too late, your day is just gone by, man.
This happens, and that happens, and this distraction, and that distraction, and before you know
it, you say, I haven't even prayed yet, I haven't spent time with the Lord.
I don't agree with a whole lot of things that Luther did or said, there are some things
that I agree with, but Luther said of himself that on his busiest of days, he got up earlier
in the morning so that he could spend more time with God in prayer.
Wow.
Most of us have the idea that if I have a super busy day, I'm going to get up early
so I can get a head start on it, I'm going to get all the things done.
Mueller said, I'm going to reference something from Mueller, another reference in Mueller's
life, but Mueller had the idea that, listen, I'm not going to do anything, anything until
I've had a good season of interaction, prayer, communion with my Father.
Now, if you know anything about Mueller, how many of you have read something about Mueller?
Man, he's got an amazing testimony of so many answers to prayer, and so many amazing
things.
Why?
He spent time with God.
He planned it.
We understand that Paul gives the admonition to the church in Thessalonica that we're to
pray without ceasing.
It does not mean that you can be every moment of every day in a season of prayer, but it
does mean that we ought to be able to pray at any moment, that we have that communion
with our Father, and we begin to understand that we are to be people of prayer, and that
we are to engage every day of our lives, we are to be people of prayer.
So often, you don't need to turn there, but I think about it in the life of Nehemiah when
you think about the subject of the idea of pray without ceasing.
In Nehemiah chapter number one, we find that Nehemiah receives a report with regard to
Jerusalem.
The report is not a good report, and it causes Nehemiah to seek the face of God, and he spends
time in prayer.
Part of that prayer is recorded for us in Nehemiah chapter number one, where he's praying,
he's seeking the face of God, he's calling out to the Lord, he's praying for the forgiveness
of sin, and all of these things.
We come to the second chapter of the book of Nehemiah, and we find that Nehemiah is
now going to stand before the king.
Why is he standing before the king?
Well, because he's the king's cupbearer, and he's going to stand before the king, and as
he stands before the king, the king recognizes and sees that there's something different
about his countenance.
Well, no doubt the events that had been reported to him that are given to us in Nehemiah one
had affected him, and therefore it was visible.
Have you ever seen somebody say, man, something was just said to that person, they're dealing
with some bad news, something, and you can see it on their countenance.
So the king, Artaxerxes, he recognizes, he says, hey, this is nothing but sorrow of
heart.
And then the king says this in verse number four of Nehemiah two, for what dost thou make
request?
And then the Bible says this, so I prayed.
Can I tell you in that moment, Nehemiah didn't have an hour to go seek the face of God.
I believe, because in the very next verse it says, then, and I said unto the king, you
know what I think Nehemiah did?
One of those Lord help me kind of prayers.
He had spent time in prayer in Nehemiah chapter number one, but then Nehemiah chapter number
two, it's just a, so I prayed.
See that ought to be in our lives.
Something comes up in your life, something happens, I got a phone call last week about
something, it doesn't matter what it was about, and I said, listen, can I just pray
with you right now?
We just prayed on the phone.
That we're constantly in that communion, that at any moment, for any reason, and we find
this morning, I ask myself the question, what place does prayer have in my life?
We find that Paul is saying to Timothy, listen, in this life, as you're dealing with all that
you're dealing with, when you're seeking to fulfill the race that God's called you to
fulfill.
When you're seeking to fulfill the ministry.
that He's called you to, He's equipped you, but He's given you this wonderful opportunity
to pray, to pray.
I wonder this morning, do we have a time, do we have a place?
Think about Abraham, if you will.
Abraham in Genesis 19, I'm going to reference just in passing, very quickly, three references,
but in Genesis chapter 19, I want you to see what the Bible says about Abraham.
In Genesis 19 and verse 27, the Bible says this, and Abraham got up early in the morning.
He got up when?
Early in the morning.
Notice what it says, to the place where he stood before the Lord.
Abraham had a time, Abraham had a place.
He got up early, he got up early, and he went to the place where he stood before the
Lord.
I want you to think about Daniel, and Daniel chapter number 6.
We know about Daniel, and we understand the writing that was given with regard to the
enemies of Daniel that wanted him to be cast into the den of lions and all that took place
with Darius and so on and so forth, but we find that when they could find nothing against
Daniel concerning the laws of the land and what have you, they realized that what they
could do is have the king write this decree that if anyone asked a request of anyone other
than the king, they'd be cast into the den of lions.
So the Bible tells us in Daniel 6 and verse number 10, now when Daniel knew that the writing
was signed, praise the Lord, I'm thankful that God included that.
Every word of God is pure.
I'm thankful that God included that.
Why?
Because some of us, somebody might be like, well he didn't know it was written.
No, no.
He knew what the stakes were, but there was such an understanding of the need of prayer
that even though he knew that the writing was signed, what did he do?
He went to the place and he prayed.
He was not fearful.
He was going to commune with his father.
The Bible says that he knew that the writing was signed.
He went into his house and his window was being opened.
He didn't shut him.
Listen, I like the courage of Daniel.
By the way, he got cast into the den of lions, but God took care of him.
That's the God that we serve.
By the way, Darius, he had an understanding that God could take care of him.
Darius did everything he could to deliver Daniel from having to go to the den of lions,
but Darius failed because Darius was just a human king, but the king of kings, he protected
his servant.
And the Bible says that he opened, he goes in, his window's being opened, the chamber
toward Jerusalem.
He kneeled down upon his knees three times a day and prayed, noticed and gave thanks
before his God.
And then it says, as he did aforetime, he was a man of prayer, he was a man of prayer.
Jesus had a place in John 18.
The Bible tells us, and of course leading up to the arrest and the eventual crucifixion
of our Savior, followed by his glorious resurrection.
The Bible says in John 18 in verse number 1, when Jesus had spoken these words, he went
forth with his disciples over the brook Kedron, where was a garden, into which he entered
and his disciples.
And then Judas, notice also which betrayed him, notice what it says, he knew the place.
He knew the place.
Why?
For Jesus oft times resorted thither with his disciples.
When Jesus was in Jerusalem, his place was in the garden, it's where he prayed.
And so we ask ourselves this morning, what priority, what place does prayer have in your
life and in my life?
Because we find as we come to 1 Timothy chapter 2 in verse number 1, that Paul says, I exhort
therefore that first of all, notice he says, supplications, prayers, intercessions and
giving of thanks be made for all men.
We see number 1 this morning, a priority on prayer.
We see number 2 this morning, a pattern for prayer.
I titled the message, Structure in Your Prayer Life.
There's a pattern that is given to us in chapter number 2, verse number 1, with regard to elements,
if you will, of prayer.
We find that it begins with supplications, supplications simply in treaty, humble and
earnest prayer in worship, a petition or a request.
Can I say this?
Most of us are pretty good with supplications.
It's almost as if God, we have a whole list of things that we want from you, it's like
a grocery list.
Supplications is something that just kind of comes easy for us.
But then it says prayers.
Now this is kind of interesting, this is from 1820, Noah Webster's 1828 dictionary on what
prayer means.
I love the definition that he gives, it's a lengthy definition.
And here's what it says, asking with earnestness, that's the short part of it.
It says it's a solemn address to God consisting of five things.
The first thing that he mentions that it consists of is adoration, or an expression
of our sense of God's glorious perfectness.
That's how the 1828 Noah Webster's dictionary begins to explain prayer.
What is prayer?
It's adoration.
We serve a great God, we dealt with it all year last year, great is the Lord and greatly
to be praised.
Listen, we're to adore him, we're to stand in awe of who he is.
Had a brief conversation with someone yesterday from our church, and as we're talking we're
just kind of, honestly just worshiping the Lord on how great he is.
And how just he transcends us.
It's amazing how great our God is, and when we pray, we begin, it consists of, number
one, adoration.
Number two, confession of our sins.
Confession of our sins.
You know when you got saved and when I got saved, I didn't stop sinning, and neither
did you.
It'd be pretty nice if we did, but we didn't.
It'd be really nice if the flesh was eradicated at the moment that we got saved, but no, it
did not, it was not eradicated.
But you know what?
We're no longer bound, we're no longer enslaved, but thanks be to God which giveth us the victory,
we can, the Bible says, that we can walk in the spirit and not fulfill the lust of the
flesh.
It didn't say that the flesh isn't going to have its lusts and its desires, it just simply
says that if we walk in the spirit, we will not fulfill the lusts of the flesh.
Confession, you know what confession means?
It means to say the same thing, to acknowledge that it was wicked, that it was ungodly.
You know how sometimes confession works for some of us?
God, if I sin, no, no, no, start over.
It's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when you sinned, how you sinned, what was
the offense before a holy God?
That's confession.
It's not this broad paintbrush of if I did, no, we did, we're sinners.
I'm thankful to be saved by grace, I'm thankful to be heaven bound, amen?
But he says the second part, Webster in his dictionary, defining prayer, the second aspect
is confession of sins, but then number three, supplication for mercy and forgiveness.
I'm so thankful that our God is merciful.
I'm so thankful this morning that our God, the Bible says it this way, he is ready to
forgive, he is ready to pardon.
First John chapter one, verse number nine, if we confess our sins, what, he is faithful
and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
The Bible tells us in chapter number two of the book of First John, that when we sin,
we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
Listen, I preached a whole message on the fact that Jesus is our advocate.
I love the idea of that passage of scripture in First John chapter number two, because
we sin, you sin, I sin, but we have an advocate with the Father.
The best way that we could describe an advocate today is a defense attorney.
And so often today, you know what defense attorneys are trying to do?
They're trying to argue for the innocence of their client.
They make up whatever stories they want to make up, they fabricate whatever they're trying
to fabricate to try to argue for the innocence of their clients.
You know what your advocate, you know what my advocate does?
Tim, he says, he's guilty.
He's guilty, but I paid for it.
Wow, it's amazing when you understand what our advocate does.
We're not innocent, we're guilty.
And the old accuser comes, begins to try to accuse you because of some sin in your
life.
We have an advocate with the Father.
He says, yes, he's guilty, but I paid for it, hallelujah.
What a joy.
Supplication for mercy and forgiveness, I'm thankful that our God is rich in mercy.
The number four aspect of the definition of prayer is intercession for blessings on others.
This idea of intercessory prayer, so important.
Sometimes what happens in our prayer life is it consists so much of just me and my life.
But you know, we ought to be engaged in intercessory prayer.
We're praying for one another.
Brethren pray for us.
That's what Paul said at the end of the book of 1 Thessalonians.
He didn't just say it there.
other places as well. You know, what a joy it is to know that we can intercede for someone
else, that we can be those intercessors. We find that the fifth part that Webster indicates
with regard to defining the word prayer is thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, to give thanks.
We adore who he is and then we thank him for the things that he does. If you read Psalm
chapter number 50 and you read about praise, you find that in Psalm 150, and you read
about praise in Psalm 150, you'll find that there's very clearly communicated in Psalm
150 that we're to praise God for who he is and for what he does. Our God is a great
God and he is to be adored. When we learn to praise him because of who he is, we'll
never lack reason to rejoice. For he is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's
king of kings, lord of lords. He's the Lord God omnipotent. He reigns, he rules, his way
is perfect, and it always is going to be. The third aspect in 1 Timothy chapter number
2, he says, first of all, supplications. That's the easy way to describe a petition or request.
It's humble and earnest prayer and worship. He says prayers. And then he says intercessions.
Prayer or solicitation to one party in favor of another. Well in the context of understanding
this subject of prayer, we find that what it is is that we're seeking the face of God
on behalf of a brother or sister in Christ, or maybe if we're praying for a lost person
we're seeking the face of God on the behalf of a lost person to be saved, but we find
this ministry of intercession, this intercessory prayer. We find that Moses is a great example
of an intercessor. We won't take the time, but you could go back and you can read various
aspects in the Pentateuch of where Moses is serving as an intercessor. He seeks the face
of God. A very familiar one is in Numbers chapter 14, after they're ready to stone
Joshua and Caleb and all that takes place and God's judgment is pronounced, and Moses
goes before the Lord. And he prays as an intercessor. He prays that God would forgive them. And
we find that Moses serves as an intercessor. You know, you can pray for yourself, but you
can pray for others. I'm thankful that people pray for me. I got a text last night from
a man that no one here knows. I barely know him. He's a pastor in the state of Virginia.
I know him just a little bit. I don't see him that often. He sent me a text last night
and said, just want you to know I'm praying for you. It's an encouragement. Almost every
Sunday morning I pray for all of you. I pray for our church every Sunday morning by name.
I go through this auditorium and kind of know where each person sits. That's why when you
move your seat, it messes me up. Amen? Josh and Aaron are way out of place this morning.
Amen? But I know where people sit and I pray for you. But after I pray for you, I have
a whole list of preachers all around this country that I pray for. I pray that as they
get in the sacred desk, that God would use them. I don't send all of them a text message
and let them know I'm praying for them, but every once in a while, God, I'm pressed upon
my heart to let somebody know that I was praying for them. And what a blessing to think about
the fact that not only do I have the opportunity to pray for them, but I know that many of
them are praying for me. What a blessing. The ministry of intercessory prayer. He says
giving of thanks at the end of verse number one. Giving of thanks. Expressing gratitude.
Philippians 4 says this, in Philippians 4 and verse number 6, a verse that many of us
are familiar with, the Bible says, be careful for nothing, but in everything. Remember I
told you the quote from John R. Rice? All of our problems are prayer problems. In everything,
by prayer and supplication with what? With thanksgiving. With thanksgiving, let your
request be made known unto God. We find that there's structure given to us in this verse
of scripture with regard to our prayer life. We see the priority, but we see a pattern.
Now personally, I find that beginning my time of prayer with adoration and thanksgiving
helps immensely. As I enter into the time of prayer with God on a daily basis, when
I begin with that adoration and that thanksgiving, man it's a spirit of worship. Begin to just
fill your mind with who God is. And begin to really be overwhelmed at standing in awe
of who he is. Listen, my prayer life is not what it ought to be, but I'm trying to be
transparent this morning that when you start there, it's going to help you a whole lot.
If you just start with a whole list of God, I need this today and I need that today and
would you help me with this today and so on and so forth, and then just kind of, no, no,
I want to get into his presence. I want to worship him. I want to adore him. And when
I do, guess what? Not only is he pleased, but it helps me. It'll help you. And we find,
I've mentioned this from this pulpit on many times over the years, that the hardest discipline
that I find in a Christian life is the discipline of prayer. Prayer is spiritual warfare. It's
spiritual battle. Your mind can wander in a moment. I like to pray out loud. If you
came in here, Dean popped in here on a Sunday morning one morning early, and I was up here
on the platform praying out loud, he probably thought I was crazy. I like to pray out loud.
Why? Because it keeps me from being distracted. When I pray silently, I can get distracted
in a moment. I'm just being honest. So easy. You know what else? When you pray out loud,
it kind of helps you not fall asleep. You ever fall asleep praying? The disciples did.
Listen, if you did, you're in good company because the disciples did. I'm not saying
that it's, I'm not commending you for it, I'm just saying it's a human thing. You pray
out loud. I said this years ago, and I did it. I've only done it twice. I recorded myself
praying. And then I listened to it. You know why I did that? To help me. Because sometimes
we can be scattered. You know what I found? There are some times that I repeated myself
multiple times in the time that I prayed. It was, it was instructive for me. It was
not the easiest thing to do. One of the hardest things is to listen to myself preach. I hate
it. Oh man, I should have said that different. I should have used this word instead of that
word. But it helped me when I listened to myself pray. I would encourage you, maybe
try it. Most of you have a smart phone that has a little recording device on it. All you
have to do is put that thing on and turn it on and just pray. Listen to it. See how
much you're praying, adoring God. See how much you're praying for others versus praying
for yourself. See, this morning, it's a time of worship. It's a time of communion with
my Heavenly Father that I get to enter into His presence. What a joy. That I'll never
be neglected. I mentioned that I was going to share this account that is given of George
Mueller. He's a great man of prayer. The account goes this way. It's an incident from the life
of George Mueller that was related by a man by the name of Mr. Inglis. This man, Mr. Inglis,
heard the story firsthand from a captain of a ship. The captain of the ship was the
man who prayed with George Mueller, or really that George Mueller prayed with him. And as
they were taking a journey, this man, Mr. Inglis, heard this firsthand report and he's
recounting what he heard. And he says this, when I first came to America 31 years ago,
I crossed the Atlantic with the captain of a steamer who was one of the most devoted
men I ever knew. And when we were off the banks of Newfoundland, he said to me, Mr.
Inglis, the last time I crossed here, five weeks ago, one of the most extraordinary things
happened which has completely revolutionized the whole of my Christian life. He said up
to that time, I was one of your ordinary Christians. I'm not sure all that he meant by that, but
I would believe that he meant that he did pray and he read his Bible and so on and
so forth. But he says we had a man of God on board, George Mueller of Bristol. I'd been
on the bridge for 22 hours and never left it. I was startled by someone tapping me on
the shoulder. It was George Mueller. Captain, he said, I have to, I've come to tell you
that I must be in Quebec on Sunday afternoon. This was Wednesday. And his response to Mueller
was it is impossible. It is impossible. Very well, if your ship can't take me, this is
what George Mueller said, God will find some other means of locomotion to take me. I find
that to be amazing. Man of faith. He said this, I have never broken an engagement in
57 years. God gave me this engagement and I don't intend that God's going to let me
break it is basically what he's communicating. He says I would willingly help you. How can
I?
I am helpless."
That's what the captain says back to George Mueller.
"'Let me go down to the chart room and pray.'
I looked at that man of God and I thought to myself, what lunatic asylum could that
man have come from?
I never heard such a thing."
Why would you pray about this?
That's really kind of the thought.
Again, he said that up to that point he would consider himself just an ordinary Christian,
but this event completely revolutionized the whole of his Christian life.
The account goes on to say that Mr. Mueller said, "'I do not know how dense the fog
is.'"
There was an issue with transporting because of the fog.
He said, "'I do not know how dense the fog is.'
"'No,' he replied, "'my eye is not on the density of the fog, but on the loving
God who controls every circumstance in my life.'"
You know, sometimes our focus is just in the wrong place, just in the wrong place.
We look at the problem instead of the God who is greater than the problem.
Amen?
Mueller said, "'No, no, you're looking at the fog, but I'm looking at God.
Your eyes, your focus is on the wrong place.'"
And the account goes on to say that he got down on his knees and he prayed.
What this man described as one of the simplest prayers, and he muttered to himself, that
would suit a children's class where the children were not more than eight or nine years old.
By the way, we could learn some things from the prayers of some young kids.
Do you know that your prayer and my prayer is not to impress God?
We can impress God, but if we're not careful, it's almost like we're trying to impress
God in how we pray.
He said it was like an eight or nine year old prayed.
That's how simple it was.
Here's what he prayed, something like this, "'Oh Lord, if it is consistent with I will,
please remove this fog in five minutes.'"
That's pretty specific.
He says, "'You know the engagement you made for me in Quebec, and I believe it is your
will.'"
That's what he prayed.
So then when he finished, the captain was going to pray.
You know what George Mueller said to this captain?
He put his hand on his shoulder and he said, "'You don't need to pray.'"
Here's what George Mueller said according to this captain.
He said, "'First, you do not believe that God will.'"
You don't believe that God will, so don't pray.
How are we to pray?
I said it by way of introduction, believing in faith.
He said, "'You don't believe that God will pray.'"
Number two, here's what George Mueller said, "'I believe God's already answered.'"
So there's no need to pray.
And there's no need whatsoever for you to pray about it.
And I looked at him and George Mueller said, "'Captain, I have known my Lord for 47 years
and there's never been a single day that I have failed to gain an audience with the
King.
Get up, captain, and open the door.
You will find that the fog is gone.'"
Captain said, "'I got up, I opened the door, and the fog was gone.'"
And he made it to Quebec for his appointment that had been made.
Why don't I share that account with you?
Well, it had a profound impact in that captain's life.
He says his own testimony is that it completely revolutionized the whole of his Christian
life.
I'm not sure this morning how your prayer life is.
I would venture to say this morning that for every single one of us, our prayer life could
use some help.
I don't care if your prayer life is better now than it's ever been, it could still use
some help.
It's not a criticism to say it that way.
Just simply saying that we ought to be growing.
We ought not get stagnant.
We ought not flounder around.
We understand that this portion of Scripture, I could have gone through verse number eight
this morning and just dealt with all of it.
I was really leaning that way in the beginning of last week, but God just really stopped
me on verse number one.
There's a priority.
There's a pattern.
If you're going to have structure in your prayer life, I'm going to have structure in
my prayer life.
I believe that having structure is a key to consistency in your prayer life.
We just need to be people of prayer.
Listen, you're not going to impress God with how eloquent you wax in your prayer time.
You're just not.
God knows your heart anyway.
He knows my heart.
Sometimes I go to God and say, God, I just, I know as kids I try to be careful with using
this word, but sometimes, I'm just stupid, God.
I can't figure this stuff out.
God just help me.
He said that if any man lacked wisdom that you'd give.
God, I need wisdom.
God knows that, and it's good for us to know that because if we don't know it, we're not
going to ask for it.
This morning, how's my prayer life?
How's your prayer life?
Take some time this morning in our time of invitation to really just examine yourself
and ask God to help us in the area of our prayer lives.
We don't see prayer answered in our lives.
Our God is able.
He's extended that invitation.
He's given us instruction, and we see throughout the Bible the impact of prayer this morning.
How's our prayer life?
Let's pray.
Lord, I ask that you'd work in these moments.
I pray that you'd move in ways that only you could.
I pray that this morning you've taken this truth from this verse of Scripture that you'd
impact the lives of your people.
God help us to be people of prayer.
Help us to have structure in our prayer lives.
Help us, Lord, to never be guilty of neglecting prayer, that it would be our first response
and not our last resort.
And God, we'd see you work in amazing ways because you're able.
You're the omnipotent God who has all power, who spoke everything into existence.
You said, is anything too hard for me?
Lord, there's nothing that's too hard for you.
And I pray that you'd help us this morning to truly examine our prayer lives, that, Lord,
we'd have structure and we'd have emphasis, or excuse me, consistency in our prayer lives.
We'll give you the honor and glory for all that you'll do, for it's in Christ's name
we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
Kimberly's going to play quietly on the piano this morning, and I'm going to ask you to
just be honest with the Lord, just do business with God.
If you're not saved, I didn't preach on salvation this morning, but if you're not saved, I'll
take a Bible and show you, you'll know for sure that heaven's your home.
But let's do business with God this morning as we examine our prayer lives.
As Kimberly plays, the altar is open.